Simplify local installation guide (#3897)
kyma-project/kyma: docs/kyma/docs/04-02-local-installation.md

type: Installation
---

This Installation guide shows developers how to quickly deploy Kyma locally on the MacOS and Linux platforms. Kyma is installed locally using a proprietary installer based on a [Kubernetes operator](https://coreos.com/operators/). The document provides prerequisites and instructions on how to install Kyma locally, as well as the troubleshooting tips.

## Prerequisites

> Additionally, download these tools:

Author: Removed

Virtualization:

- [Hyperkit driver](https://github.com/kubernetes/minikube/blob/master/docs/drivers.md#hyperkit-driver) - MacOS only
- [VirtualBox](https://www.virtualbox.org/) - Linux only

> **NOTE:** To work with Kyma, use only the provided scripts and commands. Kyma requires a specific Minikube configuration and does not work on a basic Minikube cluster that you can start using the `minikube start` command.

## Install Kyma and access the Console UI

1. Open a terminal window and navigate to a space in which you want to store your local Kyma sources.

2. Clone the Kyma repository to your machine using either HTTPS or SSH. Run this command to clone the repository and change your working directory to `kyma`:
  <div tabs>
    <details>
    <summary>
    HTTPS
    </summary>

    ```
    git clone https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma.git ; cd kyma
    ```
    </details>
    <details>
    <summary>
    SSH
    </summary>

    ```
    git clone git@github.com:kyma-project/kyma.git ; cd kyma
    ```
    </details>

>   </div tabs>

Author: 👍 this seems to have fixed the issue

  <div tabs>
    <details>
    <summary>
    MacOS
    </summary>

    ```
    ./cmd/run.sh --password {USER_PASSWORD}
    ```
    </details>
    <details>
    <summary>
    Linux
    </summary>

    ```
    ./cmd/run.sh --password {USER_PASSWORD} --vm-driver virtualbox
    ```
    </details>
  </div tabs>

8. By default, the Kyma installation is a background process, which allows you to perform other tasks in the terminal window. Nevertheless, you can track the progress of the installation by running the `is-installed.sh` script. It is designed to give you clear information about the Kyma installation. Run it at any point to get the current installation status, or to find out whether the installation is successful.

  ```
  ./scripts/is-installed.sh
  ```
  >**TIP:** If the script indicates that the installation failed, try to install Kyma again by re-running the `run.sh` script. If the installation fails in a reproducible manner, don't hesitate to create a [GitHub](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/issues) issue in the project or reach out to the ["installation" Slack channel](https://kyma-community.slack.com/messages/CD2HJ0E78) to get direct support from the community.

> 9. After the installation is completed, you can access the Console UI. Go to [this](https://console.kyma.local) address and select **Login with Email**. Use the **admin@kyma.cx** email address and the password you set using the `--password` flag.

Reviewer: We can point to the troubleshooting section in case the user did not set the password using the flag. What do you think?

Author: The document is riddled with notes and tips, I'd rather not add another one to avoid making it cluttered. I'll make the password troubleshooting tip more visible by moving it to the first position in the "Troubleshooting" section.

10. At this point, Kyma is ready for you to explore. See what you can achieve using the Console UI or check out one of the [available examples](https://github.com/kyma-project/examples).

Read [this](#installation-reinstall-kyma) document to learn how to reinstall Kyma without deleting the cluster from Minikube.
To learn how to test Kyma, see [this](#details-testing-kyma) document.

## Stop and restart Kyma without reinstalling

Use the `minikube.sh` script to restart the Minikube cluster without reinstalling Kyma. Follow these steps to stop and restart your cluster:

1. Stop the Minikube cluster with Kyma installed. Run:
  ```
  minikube stop
  ```
2. Restart the cluster without reinstalling Kyma. Run:
  <div tabs>
    <details>
    <summary>
    MacOS
    </summary>

    ```
    ./scripts/minikube.sh --domain "kyma.local" --vm-driver hyperkit
    ```
    </details>
    <details>
    <summary>
    Linux
    </summary>

    ```
    ./scripts/minikube.sh --domain "kyma.local" --vm-driver virtualbox
    ```
    </details>

>   </div tabs>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  </div>
```

Virtualization:

- [Hyperkit driver](https://github.com/kubernetes/minikube/blob/master/docs/drivers.md#hyperkit-driver) - MacOS only
- [VirtualBox](https://www.virtualbox.org/) - Linux only

> **NOTE:** To work with Kyma, use only the provided scripts and commands. Kyma requires a specific Minikube configuration and does not work on a basic Minikube cluster that you can start using the `minikube start` command.

## Install Kyma and access the Console UI

1. Open a terminal window and navigate to a space in which you want to store your local Kyma sources.

2. Clone the Kyma repository to your machine using either HTTPS or SSH. Run this command to clone the repository and change your working directory to `kyma`:
  <div tabs>
    <details>
    <summary>
    HTTPS
    </summary>

    ```
    git clone https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma.git ; cd kyma
    ```
    </details>
    <details>
    <summary>
    SSH
    </summary>

    ```
    git clone git@github.com:kyma-project/kyma.git ; cd kyma
    ```
    </details>
  </div tabs>

> 3. Choose the release from which you want to install Kyma. Go to the GitHub releases page to find out more about each of the available releases. Run this command to list all of the available tags that correspond to releases:

Reviewer 2: Maybe link to release page?

Author: Added

  ```
  git tag
  ```

4. Checkout the tag corresponding to the Kyma release you want to install. Run:
  ```
  git checkout {TAG}
  ```
 >**NOTE:** If you don't checkout any of the available tags, your sources match the state of the project's `master` branch at the moment of cloning the repository.

> 

Reviewer 2: This is skipped for purpose?

Author: I brought it back and made part of the note under the step that shows how to add the certificate to the os keychain.

> 3. Navigate to the `installation` directory which contains all of the required installation resources. Run:

Reviewer 2: Numbering is broken

Author: Fixed

  ```
  cd installation
  ```

4. Kyma comes with a local wildcard self-signed `server.crt` certificate. Add this certificate to your OS trusted certificates to access the Console UI. On MacOS, run:
  ```
  sudo security add-trusted-cert -d -r trustRoot -k /Library/Keychains/System.keychain certs/workspace/raw/server.crt
  ```
  >**NOTE:** Mozilla Firefox uses its own certificate keychain. If you want to access the Console UI though Firefox, add the Kyma wildcard certificate to the certificate keychain of the browser.

> 5. Start the installation. Trigger the `run.sh` script to start Minikube with a Kyma-specific configuration install the necessary components. Define the password used to log in to the Console UI using the `--password` flag. Run:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. Start the installation. Trigger the `run.sh` script to start Minikube with a Kyma-specific configuration and install the necessary components. Define the password used to log in to the Console UI using the `--password` flag. Run:
```

Author: fixed

  <div tabs>
    <details>
    <summary>
    MacOS
    </summary>

    ```
    ./cmd/run.sh --password {USER_PASSWORD}
    ```
    </details>
    <details>
    <summary>
    Linux
    </summary>

    ```
    ./cmd/run.sh --password {USER_PASSWORD} --vm-driver virtualbox
    ```
    </details>
  </div tabs>

6. By default, the Kyma installation is a background process, which allows you to perform other tasks in the terminal window. Nevertheless, you can track the progress of the installation by running the `is-installed.sh` script. It is designed to give you clear information about the Kyma installation. Run it at any point to get the current installation status, or to find out whether the installation is successful.

  ```
  ./scripts/is-installed.sh
  ```
  >**TIP:** If the script indicates that the installation failed, try to install Kyma again by re-running the `run.sh` script. If the installation fails in a reproducible manner, don't hesitate to create a [GitHub](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/issues) issue in the project or reach out to the ["installation" Slack channel](https://kyma-community.slack.com/messages/CD2HJ0E78) to get direct support from the community.

> 7. After the installation is completed, you can access the Console UI. Go to [this](https://console.kyma.local) and select **Login with Email**. Use the **admin@kyma.cx** email address and the password you set using the `--password` flag.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
7. After the installation is completed, you can access the Console UI. Enter [Console](https://console.kyma.local) and select **Login with Email**. Use the **admin@kyma.cx** email address and the password you set using the `--password` flag.
```

Author: fixed

> 8. At this point, Kyma is ready for you to explore. See what you can achieve using the Console UI or check out one of the [available examples](https://github.com/kyma-project/examples).

Reviewer 2: > At this point, Kyma is ready for you to explore.

❤️

Author: :)
